---
layout: post
title:  Transfer files with Box and lftp
date: 2022-08-13
description: Use lftp to reliably transfer large amounts of data to and from your Box account.
tags: lftp Box
categories: tutorials
published: true
---

### Outline
---
1. [Purpose](#purpose)
2. [Setup and Configuration](#setup)
3. [Using `lftp`](#use-lftp)

<a name="purpose"></a>
### Purpose 
---
Transfer Box cloud storage files with the command line tool `lftp`. `lftp` is more reliable than using a web browser. It automatically handles errors, can restart interrupted transfers, and can transfer both large files and large amounts of files. `lftp` is also useful when there is no GUI available such as in an HPC environment.

<a name="setup"></a>
### Setup and Configuration 
---
First install [`lftp`](https://lftp.yar.ru) on your local machine with your favorite package manager:

```sh
$ brew install lftp
```

Then update the `lftp` config file to force strict security options.

```sh
$ mkdir ~/.lftp
$ echo -e \
'set ftps:initial-prot ""
set ftp:ssl-force true
set ftp:ssl-protect-data true' >> ~/.lftp/rc
```

If your Box account uses [SSO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_sign-on) you must create a unique password to use `lftp`. Most university Box accounts use SSO. Set a unique password from your [Box account settings](https://box.com/account).

<div class="row justify-content-center">
    <div class="col-8">
        {% responsive_image path: assets/img/box_unique_pw.png class: "img-fluid rounded" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Screenshot of the unique password Box account setting.
</div>

<a name="use-lftp"></a>
### Using `lftp` 
---
Login with your Box unique password and start an `lftp` shell with the command below. Replace [Box email address] with the "Default Email Address" shown in your Box account settings.
```sh
$ lftp ftps://[Box email address]@ftp.box.com
```

Upload a local directory to Box (defaults to top-level Box directory without second path)
```sh
lftp foo@ftp.box.com:~> mirror -R /path/to/local/directory /path/to/Box/directory
````

Download a Box directory to your local machine
```sh
lftp foo@ftp.box.com:~> mirror /path/to/Box/directory /path/to/local/directory
````

Upload a local file to Box (defaults to top-level Box directory without `-o` flag and argument)
```sh
lftp foo@ftp.box.com:~> put /path/to/local.file -o /path/to/Box/directory
```

Download a Box file to your local machine (defaults to local $HOME directory without `-o` flag and argument)
```sh
lftp foo@ftp.box.com:~> get /path/to/Box.file -o /path/to/local/directory
````

Some more useful `lftp` shell commands:

&emsp;&emsp;| <font size="+1"><b>Command</b></font> | | | <font size="+1"><b>Description</b></font> |
&emsp;&emsp;| `ls` | | | list files in current Box directory |
&emsp;&emsp;| `!ls` | | | list files in current local directory |
&emsp;&emsp;| `cd` | | | change Box directory |
&emsp;&emsp;| `lcd` | | | change local directory |
&emsp;&emsp;| `pwd` | | | print path to current Box directory |
&emsp;&emsp;| `lpwd` | | | print path to current local directory |
&emsp;&emsp;| `mkdir` | | | make a folder on Box |

<br>
Check out [this page](https://lftp.yar.ru/lftp-man.html) or run `man lftp` in your terminal for a comprehensive list of commands and options. This tutorial borrows heavily from the `lftp` [guide from the Barrick Lab
](https://barricklab.org/twiki/bin/view/Lab/CommandLineBox).
